---
layout: post
title: "The year 2021 in books"
date:   2022-01-13 11:11:11
description: ""
tags: []
---

Books read in 2021. Again almost zero commute. I was able to read 31 books.

As in 2020 I'll rate the books from one to three stars. Three of three (3/3) stars being what I thoroughly have enjoyed and would recommend to others who are into the topic of the book or enjoy a good read in general. Giving a book one star neither states the book is bad or I do not agree with it, rather it is something I personally did not enjoy too much.

### Die Nibelungen - Auguste Lechner - 1/3
Common tale in germany.

### The New Right: A Journey to the Fringe of American Politics - Michael Malice - 2/3
An intro to the American New Right

### Ask Your Developer - Jeff Lawson - 3/3
Written as a handbook for Project Managers or Product Owners. Talk to your developers about problems instead of solutions. Telling them what the goal is instead of telling them what to do.

### Der Himmel kennt keine Günstlinge - Erich Maria Remarque 2/3
On racing and cherishing life with a carefree attitude.

### Staff Engineer: Leadership Beyond the Management Track - Will Larson 2/3
How to stay an Individual Contributor in a software company instead of moving into management.

### How to destroy a tech startup in three easy steps - Lawrence Krubner - 3/3
A funny and gripping read on some, questionably true, experiences of a developer in a tech startup. Went through it in one sitting.

### Heat - Bill Buford - 2/3
The authors experiences working as a cook.

### White Noise - Don Delillo - 1/3
A critique of modern society.

### Jordan B. Peterson - Beyond Order - 2/3
A list of rules to live by.

### Vladimir Nabokov - Pnin - 2/3
The first Nabokov book I've read. About a russian professor in america during the 1950s.

### Franz Kafka - Die Verwandlung - 1/3
Weird

### The Anarchist Handbook - Michael Malice - 3/3
A collection of anarchist essays.

### Permutation City - Greg Egan - 3/3
What if we live forever? But on Amazon EC2 ;)

### Fundamentals of Software Architecture: An Engineering Approach - Mark Richards, Neil Ford - 3/3
How to be an effective Software Architect.

### An Elegant Puzzle: Systems of Engineering Management - Will Larson - 2/3
An approach to management in modern software companies.

### A Gentle Introduction to Unqualified Reservations - Mencius Moldbug - 2/3
Introduction to the "Political Red Pill".

### Against the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States - 3/3
Without grain there would not be modern states. Grain is easiest to tax.

### Bronze Age Mindset - Bronze Age Pervert - 3/3
Recommended by George Hotz on the Lex Fridman Podcast. Criticisms of Modern Society.

### The Pussy - Delicious Taco - 1/3
A bunch of essays, or blog posts, on relationships with women. A book one gets recommended after reading Bronze Age Mindset.

### Sun and Steel - Yukio Mishima - 1/3
The wikipedia article of Yukio Mishima can be read afterwards, not before.

### Harassment Architecture - Mike Ma - 1/3
Another books revered in right wing circles.

### Threat Modeling: Designing for Security - Adam Shostack - 2/3
Techniques to apply to your software and the surrounding infrastructure to find issues.

### An Open Letter to Open-Minded Progressives - Mencius Moldbug - 2/3

> By separating voters into two competing but cooperating parties, neither of which can destroy the other, the two-party system creates a government which will survive indefinitely, no matter how much happier its citizens might be without it.

### Die Kadetten - Ernst von Salomon - 3/3
Experiences of the author in a German Kadettenanstalt during the days of the First World War.

### The Outlaws - Ernst von Salomon - 3/3
Experiences of the author in the German [Freikorps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freikorps) in the aftermath of the First World War and the Murder of [Walther Rathenau](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walther_Rathenau).

### Bauern, Bonzen und Bomben - Hans Fallada - 2/3
Story about the German [Landvolkbewegung](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rural_People%27s_Movement).

### Faserland - Christian Kracht - 1/3
A quick read on the affluent part of my parents generation while in their late twenties/early thirties in Germany.

### Industrial Society and Its Future - Theodore J. Kaczynski - 3/3
A critique of modern society written around 1995.

### 21 Lessons: What I've Learned from Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole - Gigi - 3/3
Quick read and a great gift for "future bitcoiners". People already in the rabbit hole won't take too much out of it.

### The End of All Evil - Jeremy Locke - 3/3
The state is "not just" inefficient. It is evil.

### Demian: Die Geschichte von Emil Sinclairs Jugend - Hermann Hesse - 2/3

> "Wer nicht in die Welt passt, der ist immer nahe daran, sich selber zu finden."

Rough translation:

> "He who doesn't fit (into our world), is always close to finding himself"


