---
layout: post
title: "The year 2022 in books"
date:   2023-01-01 11:11:11
description: ""
tags: []
---

Books read in 2022. Zero commute by train. When travelling, or moving, by car I find myself listening to podcasts and music rather than audiobooks. I was able to read 12 books. A lot less than in previous years.

As previously I'll rate the books from one to three stars. Three of three (3/3) stars being what I thoroughly have enjoyed and would recommend to others who are into the topic of the book or enjoy a good read in general. Giving a book one star neither states the book is bad or I do not agree with it, rather it is something I personally did not enjoy too much.

### Argentarius - Vom Gelde - 3/3
The author explains to his son how money works. Written over 100 years ago. Fully applicable to today.

### Liebe deinen Nächsten (or "Flotsam" in English) - Erich Maria Remarque - 3/3
Why the title isn't "Treibgut" (flotsam in German) is beyond me.
Especially when reading it during evasive travels.

### Hunger - Knut Hamsun - 2/3
A struggling artist in Norway. Written over 100 years ago.

### Kinder von Hoy - Grit Lemke - 2/3
An introduction to youth live in the former DDR.

### Too Loud a Solitude - Bohumil Hrabal - 1/3
The rating could be off. I wasn't too focussed on the book while reading and found myself moving pages without remembering what is in it. Should give this another go in the future.

### Gothic Violence - Mike Ma - 2/3
Lots of short essays. Some "meh" some great.

### Alles was wir nicht erinnern - Christiane Hoffmann - 2/3 - Audiobook
The author travels along the escape route of her parents from what is now Poland to their home in Germany after the second world war.

### The Corrections - Jonathan Franzen - 3/3
Heard it is a book you should read in your thirties. Applied to me.

### Speculator (Book 1 High Ground Series) - Doug Casey and John Hunt - 2/3 - Audiobook
Action packed story on gold mining and speculation in Africa.

### Drug Lord (Book 2 High Ground Series) - Doug Casey and John Hunt - 2/3 - Audiobook
Novel on drugs and the FDA and everything in between.

### The White Pill - Michael Malice - 2/3
A refresher on communist history from Lenin to the end of the USSR.

### The Stranger - Albert Camus - 3/3
I knew nothing about the book when reading it. Luckily I did not even read the text on the back. Almost read this in one sitting. It's great.

